---
layout: post
title: Project 1 Blog
---

Information on this project can be found [here.](https://dweck1.github.io/ST558-Project1/) Project 1 in ST558 began with an introduction into JSON data. I conducted some research in order to be able to explain JSON data so that someone with little knowledge of JSON would have a basic understanding of the format. Next, I discussed jsonlite, one of the most popular R packages for reading JSON data. Finally, I used the jsonlite packages, along with some others, to connect to the NHL API and pull some data. I then performed some basic exploratory data analysis on the NHL data that I pulled. I generated a couple tables and graphs to gain some insights. From the graphs, I was able to explore which Tampa Bay Lightning forwards are the most efficient goal scorers. I identified which position racks up the most penalty minutes in their career. And lastly, I explored the relationship between a franchises average penalty minutes per game and their overall win-loss ratio. Overall, it was a pretty fun project for me since I am a big sports fan. Other than conduct some more EDA to explore some other relationships, I do not think I would do anything different if I completed this project a second time. Regarding the most difficult aspect of the project, I think it would have to be the EDA. During this process, it is important to ask the right questions to be able to generate insightful plots and tables, but this process is easier said than done. I look forward to gaining more experience with this and improving as I continue with more analyses. This is one of my biggest takeaways from the project, as well. I am realizing how important it is to ask the right questions to gain insights from data. On top of this, a big takeaway is how fun and relatively easy it is to connect to APIs with R. I enjoyed this project and am excited to continue working with R.
